 
To turn off and on an Nvidia GPU without rebooting on Debian, you can use the nvidia-smi tool, which is provided by the Nvidia drivers. This tool allows you to manage and monitor your Nvidia GPU.

Here are the steps to turn off and on an Nvidia GPU without rebooting:

1. Install Nvidia Drivers:
Ensure that you have the Nvidia drivers installed on your Debian system. You can install them using the following commands:

bash

sudo apt update
sudo apt install nvidia-driver

2. Identify the GPU:
Use the nvidia-smi command to list all the available Nvidia GPUs and their IDs:

bash

nvidia-smi

This will display a list of Nvidia GPUs along with their GPU IDs.

3. Turn Off the GPU:
To turn off a specific GPU, use the following command, replacing X with the GPU ID:

bash

sudo nvidia-smi --id=X --gom=0

For example, to turn off the GPU with ID 0, you would run:

bash

sudo nvidia-smi --id=0 --gom=0

4. Turn On the GPU:
To turn the GPU back on, use the following command, again replacing X with the GPU ID:

bash

sudo nvidia-smi --id=X --gom=1

For example, to turn on the GPU with ID 0, you would run:

bash

sudo nvidia-smi --id=0 --gom=1

Note:

    This method temporarily disables or enables the GPU without requiring a system reboot. However, it may affect running applications or processes that rely on the GPU.
    Make sure you have the necessary permissions (typically, you need to run these commands as a superuser or with sudo).
    Use this method with caution, and only if you have a specific need to power down and power up the GPU.

User
how to verify that gpu has been turned off ?
ChatGPT

To verify that a GPU has been turned off after using the nvidia-smi command to do so, you can use the nvidia-smi tool again to check the GPU's status. Here's how to do it:

    Open a terminal window.

    Run the following command to check the status of your Nvidia GPUs:

    bash

    nvidia-smi

    This command will display detailed information about all Nvidia GPUs in your system, including their current status.

    Look at the GPU you want to verify. If it is turned off, you will see a message similar to "No running processes found" in the "Processes" section, and the GPU's utilization and power usage will be at minimal or zero.

    If you see that the GPU's utilization is at zero, and there are no running processes, it indicates that the GPU has been successfully turned off.

Remember that this method only checks the current status of the GPU as reported by the nvidia-smi tool. If you encounter any issues, double-check that you followed the steps to turn off the GPU correctly and that there are no processes actively using the GPU.
